- [Instructor] At the beginning of this chapter,
we learned that API should provide
their own documentation.
Spring Data REST provides this via the /profile endpoint.
So if I do a get on 8080 of the application,
what returns is our list of links
and we have a profile link.
I'm going to click down into that
and let's see what we get with profile.
And now let's actually look at the profile of packages.
Our Spring Data REST application
responds with metadata
describing the schema and the methods
available on this resource.
This metadata follows the hypermedia
application language standard.
It's nice to have,
but it's still raw data,
and honestly, ugly.
So, we're going to use something called
the Spring Data REST HAL Browser
and see what that gives us.
Going to stop the application
and open up our pom,
and I'm adding this new dependency here.
It's part of the Spring Data framework
it's called spring-data-rest-hal-browser,
and let's see what it does for us.
Let's import those changes.
And then run the application.
And it started.
So let's actually,
instead of Postman,
let's go to a browser.
I'm going to open up my Chrome browser
and let's do localhost:8080.
And voila, we have actually a new interface
to interact with our application endpoints.
So let's actually try it out.
I'm going to go into the packages link
and click that, so here, this is the
endpoint for packages.
I'm going to say go on that.
And I get a response body of that,
so it shows all the packages.
And I'm actually going to drill down into the first one.
And that shows that the first package is Backpack Cal.
I'm going to click on the self link,
you can actually do a link on that right resource
and it populates with the code up here,
and there's the response.
Now let me go back to the beginning,
and let's look at tours.
So tours sort of has a question mark here,
and that's because of the regular get,
there's extra parameters here to be concerned about,
so I'll click this,
and we have a little popup
that shows that if we wanted to
add attributes like page size and sort,
we could actually put them in this little JSON packet.
So, let's say we want to have page three in sizes two.
And click follow URI.
And that's the result of invoking that endpoint
with those parameters.
This is a cool feature,
but I would only add it to microservices
that exclusively provides Spring Data REST APIs.